# Sketch-Pad
check it out: https://jmarti71.github.io/sketch-pad/
## Overview
Sketch Pad is an interactive webpage put together using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Sketch Pad allows users to create a drawing by dragging their mouse cursor over a designated sketch area. Before drawing anything, the user will need to select a size option for their sketch pad. Until this happens, the sketch area will not register any input from the user. Once a size is selected, the user may begin drawing. By default, the color of the sketch pen will be black, this can be changed by selecting one of the four color options on the left side of the sketch pad. To clear the drawing area and start over, the user simply clicks the reset button on the right side of the sketch area.

### User Selections and Interactivity
Since there are several settings that the user can select on this webpage. I thought it would be important to give the user visual feedback on their selections.
Sketch pad employs several CSS features to communicate to the user which settings are actively selected. This is first seen when the user selects their sketch pad size. Once the selection is made, the selected button remains the oringinal color and transformed to the size it was while the mouse was hovering over it. The unselected buttons on the other hand, are modified to have a darker color, increased transparency, and are left at their original size. Another instance of user feedback occurs when the user selects the color of their sketch pen. When the user selects a color, the selected color is given a bright yellow border of increased width and transformed in scale to appear larger than the other buttons while this selection is active. 

### Sketch Pad Design
The sketch pad itself is comprised of a grid of div elements that are sized according to the users selection. Each div container's width and height are specified in the CSS file, along with the overall size of the sketch pad. When the user selects a size, one of the sizeTo..() functions will run nested for loops to create the grid. The parent for loop generates each row for the div containers and the child for loop generates the number of specified divs within the respective row. After every div container is created, an event listener is attached. This will detect when the mouse cursor is over the div element. When this event is triggered, the applyColor(hoveredDiv, currentColor) function is ran, taking the div container that the mouse is over as the first argument and the current selected color as the second argument. It then accesses the targeted div container's background color attribute and applies the current color as its new background color. This is what creates our sketch.